Graduate Record Validation System
User Scenario
This system will be used for validating graduate students of Institute of Information Technology of University of Dhaka. 
Here the end users are: UGC staffs (Admin, Staff 1, Staff 2), University staffs (Registrar, Data entry operator 1, Data entry operator 2), 
Graduate students, Stakeholders (Foreign universities, Employers), Payment processing partners.

All the users except Stakeholders must be authenticated to interact with the system. They need to sign up by providing their 
name (First name, Last name), email address, mobile number, password, type of users such as- Admin, Staff 1, Staff 2, Registrar, 
Program officer (of IIT), Data entry operator 1, Data entry operator 2, Graduate student. If a user is a student, then s/he needs 
to insert his/her registration number for validation purpose. The users can sign in to the system by entering their email, password and 
session code, which will be sent to the users by system after submitting their email and password.

After signing in, each student can view his/her dashboard that includes profile information, payment request sent by stockholders, 
academic information including semester wise transcripts and certificates. The students can edit his/her profile information and 
upload his/her pictures. S/he can view his/her semester wise transcripts and certificates. If there is any pending payment request 
sent by stakeholder, then s/he can pay the requested amount of money by entering his/her credit card number, pin and cardholder’s name.

System admin can view his/her dashboard after logging into the system that includes profile information, dynamic report generation 
and activity log to track if there occurs any change (insert or update or delete) in the information of the system by the other 
end users. S/he can edit his/her profile information and upload his/her pictures. In dynamic report generation, system admin can 
search by university name, session to generate and view academic report of that university. S/he can also view the activity log 
of other end users.   

In Data Entry Operators(DEOs) dashboard there will be options as – update profile, enroll graduate students. S/he can edit his/her 
profile information and upload his/her pictures. S/he can insert graduate student’s information such as – name, photo, registration 
number, session, address (present and permanent), date of birth, attached hall, contact info (mobile number and email) and course-wise marks/grades.


Registrar will have update profile and pending graduate student’s approval list in his/her dashboard. S/he can edit his/her 
profile information and upload his/her picture. In pending graduate student’s list, s/he can approve or reject any student’s 
information after validating it. The system will generate/update transcripts and certificates by using this information.

Foreign universities or employers can access the system to validate their candidate student’s data. First, they have to enter student’s name,
 registration number, session, date of birth and contact info (mobile number and email address) to validate student’s general information. 
If the provided data are matched, then s/he can pay by providing credit card number, pin and cardholder’s name or request the student to 
pay by sending a request email with proper identity (name, designation, organization name, contact number and email) in order to validate 
candidate’s educational information. This will be valid for a certain amount of time. After the time, stakeholder need to pay again to avail the service.
